A case study of reservoir
characterization and modeling for
tidal-dominated estuary reservoir
in Ecuador
Cheng Jiwei1,3, Zhang Kexin2,3, Zhang Chaoqian1,3, Li Yunbo1,3, Feng Taoran1,2,3, Liu Jian1,3,
Xu Xianglin2,3 & Ma Zhongzhen1,3
The Oriente Basin, as part of the retro-arc foreland basin system, develops tidal-dominated estuary,
where the LU layer exhibits complex sedimentary characteristics in lateral that brings great
uncertainty to reservoir characterization using only wells. As a result, it is essential to investigate the
sedimentary characteristics of the tidal-dominated estuary by incorporating seismic data. First, four
electrofacies are established to characterize the logging response of various lithology combinations in
an estuary setting. The seismic facies are then studied by establishing the relationship between seismic
waveforms and logging response. Finally, a reservoir model of the LU layer is built by quantitatively
characterizing the spatial distribution of sedimentary facies based on the electrofacies and seismic
facies. Bottom-water reservoirs are reinterpreted as a combination of the upper edge-water reservoir
and the lower bottom-water reservoir based on the characterization results, which are verified by the
new drilling wells.
The tidal-dominated estuary sedimentary system is a primary reservoir for numerous oil fields worldwide and
has demonstrated significant promise in oil exploration in recent years, such as the Athabasca oil sandstone
layer in the Lower Cretaceous McMurray Formation of the Albert Basin, Canada 1, M1, U and T sandstone
layers in the Upper Cretaceous Napo Formation of the Oriente Basin, Ecuador2, Oficina sandstone layer in the
Miocene of the Venezuela Basin, eastern Venezuela3, Springhill sandstone layer in the Lower Cretaceous of the
Austral Basin, Argentina 4, Upper Cape Hay sandstone layer in the Late Devonian–Carboniferous age of the
Joseph Bonaparte Basin, Australia 5,6, and the Kalpingtage sandstone layer in the Silurian of the Tarim Basin,
China7. The dual hydrodynamics of tides and waves affect tidal-dominated estuary sedimentary environments
differently than those found in typical fluvial and deltaic sedimentary environments. This results in multi-scale
heterogeneity, complex lithology, and architecture variation, making tidal-dominated estuary sandstone difficult
to study and resulting in scarce relevant research8,9. The deterministic method relying only on wells cannot meet
the demand for characterizing reservoir properties precisely in such circumstances 10. These challenges place
high demands on fine-scale reservoir characterization, particularly when integrating with seismic data. The
final model will reflect the actual sedimentary geological features, and the variogram values used for geological
modeling will be more accurate.
Reservoir characterization is a crucial step in developing, monitoring, and managing a reservoir to optimize
production. An electrofacies is a collective association of log responses that are connected to physical properties of
rocks either implicitly through interpretation or explicitly linked to a lithology database. Identifying electrofacies
usually aims to correlate them with lithofacies identified in the core or an outcrop. The goal of seismic facies
analysis is to identify all seismic parameter variations within a depositional sequence’s stratigraphic framework
in order to determine lateral lithofacies and fluid type changes. Although identification of electrofacies and
seismic facies is significant and indispensable steps in reservoir characterization, they are still insufficient for the
LU layer in Ecuador. Presently, the further reservoir characterization method involves incorporating all available
information, which includes core data, well log data, and seismic dataset, into a reservoir model to predict
the distribution and properties of subsurface reservoirs, ultimately building a three-dimensional quantitative
reservoir model 11–17. This process synthesizes multiple disciplines, including logging, sedimentology, and
1PetroChina Research Institute of Petroleum Exploration and Development, Beijing, China. 2CNPC Andes (Ecuador)
Company Limited, Quito, Ecuador. 3China National Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Corporation, Beijing,
China. email: chjw22@petrochina.com.cn
OPEN
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 1| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports

geophysics, to interpret rock facies and achieve calibration based on data from wells, core samples, seismic
signals, and geological understanding, and establish a reservoir geological knowledge database.
Reservoir modeling is an essential step to quantitatively characterize subsurface properties and serves as
the foundation for reservoir simulation in the development and production of oil fields. Based on the accurate
reservoir model, sweet spots or regions with greater porosity, permeability, and hydrocarbon saturation can be
acquired. Operators can reduce the risk of dry holes and improve their chances of finding productive reservoirs
by focusing their drilling efforts on these zones. Various geological modeling techniques have been developed
and made great progress to meet the high requirement 14,18–24. Combining the reliable representation of a
reservoir that incorporates its petrophysical, geological, and geophysical characteristics with advanced geological
modeling methods, an accurate three-dimensional reservoir model can be created in a mature oil field.
The study area in Ecuador, exhibiting the sedimentary characteristics of a tidal-dominated estuary, contains
several oilfields. It is crucial to perform fine reservoir characterization and potential analysis in this region for
the development of oilfields. The LU layer is the primary prospective successor target among the three sets of oil-
bearing reservoirs found in the M oilfield, which has undergone successive drilling in recent years. The complex
sedimentary characteristics of the estuary reservoirs in this area and the limited understanding of the interlayers
using only wells have brought great uncertainty to the current reservoir fine characterization. Therefore, it
is essential to investigate the tidal-dominated estuary sedimentary characteristics and to characterize the
sandstone spatial distribution and the interlayer by incorporating seismic data. First, the location, tectonics,
and sedimentary characteristics of the study area are briefly described. Electrofacies are then identified and
established using core and well log in the specified regional context in order to ascertain the logging response
characteristics of various electrofacies. Next, in order to conduct the seismic facies analysis and describe the
reservoir distribution in the spatial domain, the link between seismic waveforms and petrophysical parameters is
established. Finally, based on the electrofacies and seismic facies, we perform sedimentary facies characterization
and modeling to establish a reservoir model of the LU layer in the study area and to clarify the future potential
for the reservoir.
Geological setting
Location of the study area
The most significant oil-bearing basin in Ecuador is the Oriente Basin, which is located in the Amazonian
Plain of eastern Ecuador and is a part of the Putumayo-Oriente-Maranon oil-rich foreland basin chain in South
America25,26. The basin is asymmetrically dipping with nearly north–south trending, steep in the west and gentle
in the east, and covers an area of about 10 × 104 km2. The basin is located in the transition zone between the
tectonically active Cordillera and the stable Brazil-Guyana shield (Fig. 1). The total recoverable resources of the
basin are about 15 ~ 17 × 108 tons27, which has a large potential for exploration and development.
Tectonics
Oriente basin, as the foreland basin, overlaps on the rifting basin27, where the study area is located in the slope
among the strike-slip fault system of line AA ’ from Fig. 1 as shown in Fig. 2. The tectonic evolution of the Oriente
Basin has gone through three main stages since the Paleozoic period28,29: the Paleozoic passive continental margin
stage, the Triassic-Cretaceous rift basin stage, and the late Cretaceous-present foreland basin stage. First, in the
Paleozoic passive continental margin stage: the basement of the basin consists of Precambrian magmatic rocks
Fig. 1. Simplified regional geology of northwestern South America showing the distribution of Oriente Basin
in Ecuador.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 2| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
and metamorphic rocks, where the Paleozoic stratigraphy involves two stratigraphic sequences, the lower one
is the late Silurian-early Devonian Pumbuiza Formation, consisting of moderately metamorphosed limestone,
shale, silty mudstone and sandstone, and the upper one is the Macuma Formation, composed of thin laminated
limestone and mudstone, which is deposited on the continental shelf of the passive continental margin in shallow
marine carbonate rock. Second, Triassic-Cretaceous rift basin stage: During the Triassic period, the eastern
boundary of the Pacific plate was converted from a passive continental margin to an active continental margin
and developed nearly north–south normal faults. A series of north–south oriented grabens developed, which
was filled with shallow marine-terrestrial sedimentary and acidic igneous rock. Then, the Cretaceous post-rift
depression, including the Hollin Formation and the Napo Formation, overlying the rift system, which exhibits
fluvial facies, interactive marine and terrestrial facies, and neritic shelf facies, and the main oil-bearing sandstone
are M1, U, and T layers of the Napo Formation. Finally, the late Cretaceous—present-day foreland basin stage:
during the late early Cretaceous—late Cretaceous period, marginal sea and four major basins are developed on
the east side of the Andes. Since the end of the Cretaceous, at least three tectonic accretions occurred, resulting
in the uplift of the Eastern Cordillera—Andes orogeny, which led to the evolution of the Oriente Basin into a
foreland basin.
Stratigraphic and sedimentary characteristics
The Cretaceous exhibits interactive marine and terrestrial sedimentary, where the main hydrocarbon source
rock is marine shale and asphaltene carbonate rocks in the Upper Cretaceous Napo Formation 30. The main
reservoirs are the M1, U, and T sandstone of the Napo Formation as shown in Fig. 3. Shale, coal, and carbonate
rocks are local seals in the Tena Formation. The trap finally formed in the early Cretaceous-Palaeocene.
Metamorphic basement and sedimentary infill are the two sets of stratigraphic sequences found in the Oriente
Basin, based on the outcrop data analysis and well drilling findings 31. From bottom to top, the basin fill can
be separated into three sections: the pre-Cretaceous sedimentary layer, overlying strata with an unconformity
contact, which is overlain by the interactive terrestrial and shallow marine Cretaceous sedimentary layer, and
late-Cretaceous terrestrial foreland layer. The Lower Napo Formation develops gray-black rich organic matter
shale, and oil is found in the shale at the bottom of the Napo Formation with a large thickness (15–20  m),
stable distribution at moderate depth (2,000–3,000 m) throughout the basin. The formation exhibits interbed
lamination of sandstone-mudstone interlayers, which are verified by abundant research data (most of the drilling
wells in different blocks have encountered this layer), indicating that the Napo Formation is a favorable reservoir
unit.
According to the core and well log, the Napo Formation in the study area experienced five transgressions
(magenta arrows in Fig.  3) during its deposition. The middle and lower parts of the first, second, and third
transgressions developed quartz sandstone, while shale, mudstone, and limestone deposited at the top. The
fourth and fifth transgressions deposited marlstone, limestone, mudstone, and shale, which are characterized by
the deposition of clastic and carbonate rock32. Based on the results of the time–temperature relationship analysis,
the source rock in the Oriente Basin did not begin to generate and migrate hydrocarbons until the Miocene 33.
Statistical analysis of the oil abundance in discovered reservoirs shows a sufficient supply of hydrocarbons in the
area. Meanwhile, from the viewpoint of tectonic, it is a favorable area in the path of hydrocarbon migration, and
the hydrocarbon source rock is relatively good. Reservoir property analysis shows that the Napo Formation is the
most important oil-bearing layer in the area, which mainly exhibits estuary facies, including three sandstone (M1,
U, and T) oil-bearing layers. Among them, the U sandstone has a large variation in grain size, with tidal channel
and sand bar sedimentary characteristics, with porosity of 10–25%, permeability of 100 × 10–3–6000 × 10–3 μm2,
and an average total thickness of 45.8 ft.
Fig. 2. Structural cross-sections across the Oriente foreland basin system.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 3| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Methods
First, a comprehensive analysis of the well log’s properties is conducted using both core and well log. Using the
morphology, amplitude, and rock-electricity relationship characteristics of the well log and the core data, the
relationship between the lithological combination and the electrofacies model is categorized and summarized.
The pattern variation of the well logs is also identified, and the electrofacies model is established. This allows for
the analysis and interpretation of the sedimentary features of the layers for the non-cored wells. Then, combined
with seismic data, seismic facies analysis is performed in geological interpretation. This can be used to ascertain
the lateral distribution range and sedimentary facies of sandstone reservoirs, as well as to examine the history
of geological development for sedimentary basins and the viability of industrial exploitation for the exploration
area. Lastly, the spatial distribution of reservoir properties in the subsurface reservoir can be quantitatively
described by combining geology, logging, and seismic data. Workflow of research is shown in Fig. 4.
Electrofacies model
The well log is the basic and direct information of the sedimentary microfacies identification for stratigraphy
and sandstone distribution analysis. The sedimentary environment can be interpreted by using well log to
extract logging information such as amplitude, morphology, contact relationship, and combination of features
that reflect stratigraphic features, lithology, physical properties, and sandstone thickness. Therefore, the link
between the core facies and electrofacies may be precisely established to reflect the sedimentary facies under
the calibration of core and sedimentary features. The major steps involved in electrofacies classification are as
follows:
• Conventional well log, such as gamma ray (GR), resistivity curves are calibrated using core samples. The geo-
logical characteristics of the estuary reservoirs in the M oilfield are examined.
• The sensitive parameters of reservoirs are determined and electrofacies models are established using chosen
sensitive curves.
Fig. 3. Stratigraphic column of the Oriente Basin (originally produced by42). Magenta arrows represent the five
transgressions in Napo formation. Size of the water-droplet logos for ‘oil-bearing formation’ column indicate
reservoir volume.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 4| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
• Data processed by Principal Component Analysis (PCA) can replace multiple types of conventional well log
with the first several principal components and can represent more than 90% of the original information,
thereby simplifying the data structure34.
• After PCA, K-means is applied to group data points with similar conventional well log into one category,
conduct data mining and elelctrofacies calibration, and establish an electrofacies database by minimizing
Euclidean distance cluster:

C (l) = arg min
[ p∑
r=1
|xir − xjr|2
]1
2
1≤l≤k
,i =1 , 2,...N
where xir is the r-th feature parameter of the i-th data point, C(l) is the set of data points included in the l
category.
Based on the core analysis result, in this study, the characteristics of four electrofacies can be established by
analyzing the well log characteristics of wells as shown in Fig. 5.
Tidal channel
The logging morphology is dominated by box-type or bell-type, with obvious scour filling at the bottom.
The gamma-ray (GR) curve exhibits high amplitude, medium-thick thickness, and smooth electrofacies
characteristics with abrupt variation at the bottom and gradual variation at the top.
Tidal sand bar
It consists of medium and fine sandstone, with the development of trough cross-bedding, planar cross-bedding,
and bidirectional cross-bedding. Tidal sand bar develops at the mouth of tidal-dominated estuary, and suffers
Fig. 5. Electrofacies Model of complex sand bodies in the study area. (a) Tidal channel, (b) Tidal sand bar, (c)
Tidal sand flat and (d) Mixed sand flat.

Fig. 4. Workflow of reservoir characterization, including the identification of electrofacies, seismic facies and
sedimentary facies.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 5| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
from the dual control of tide and wave, so the mudstone content is extremely low, which shows very low
amplitude in the GR curve, low compressional slowness, high resistivity with a box-type or funnel-type.
Tidal sand flat
It consists of fine sandstone interbedded with 10% to 15% mudstone, with parallel bedding and planar cross-
bedding. Sand flat characterizes low amplitude serrated in the GR curve, low compressional slowness, and high
resistivity with funnel-type or serrated type.
Mixed sand flat
The sandstone and mudstone mixed sand flat consist of fine sandstone and silt mudstone interlayers, with parallel
bedding and lenticular bedding, representing lower energy conditions. The mixed sand flat in the study area
shows a medium amplitude GR curve, medium compressional slowness, and low resistivity with serrated type.
Seismic facies model
It is important to establish the relationship between seismic data and petrophysics by analyzing seismic response
from forward modeling. To classify seismic facies, we apply a typical machine-learning workflow35:
Feature extraction Seismic attributes are typically extracted by nonlinear transformations of the original
seismic data by:
 Xi = Ti (X0)
where X0 is the original data, Ti are the transformations, and X i are the resulting seismic attributes that were
normalized.
Training Classification problems often become easier when we transform a feature into a high-dimensional
space. Kernel functions allow an implicit use of these high-dimensional spaces by calculating inner products
between feature pair images:
 K
(
x,x ′)
=
⟨
φ (x) ,φ
(
x′)⟩
• Testing. Cross-validation are performed to quantify the model performance.
• Model selection. Select model based on generalization performance of trained models on test data.
• Application.
Based on the petrophysical analysis of available well data, the basic petrophysical properties of each layer in
the area are characterized and summarized. The thickness of sandstone for the LU layer in the study area is
generally about 30 ft, whereas the thinnest thickness of sandstone is about 9–18 ft. The average bulk density of
sandstone and mudstone are 2.30 g/cm3 and 2.45 g/cm3, respectively. Compressional slowness of sandstone and
mudstone are 82 μs/ft and 90 μs/ft, respectively. The main frequency of seismic data in the study area is 40 Hz. The
characteristics of the seismic waveform for the sandstone with different combinations in the vertical direction
and lateral direction are tested using forward modeling. First, the correspondence between the thickness of
interlayer mudstone and the seismic waveform is tested in the vertical direction. Then, the correspondence
between the lateral stacking extent of sandstone and the seismic waveform is tested in the lateral direction.
In Fig. 6, it is illustrated that with the increase of interlayer mudstone thickness in the vertical direction, a
complex wave, compared with lateral waveforms, is first generated, then the wavelength of the complex wave
increases, and after that, a complex wave splits into two high-frequency wave peaks with weak amplitudes, and
finally, the amplitude of the wave trough increases between two separate wave peaks. Meanwhile, the stacking of
seismic waveforms can be separated in the lateral direction.
Within the isochronous stratigraphy, the variation of the seismic waveform can reflect different lithological
combinations, which are expressions of sedimentary or seismic facies, that is, seismic waveforms can be used to
reflect the variation of lithology and sedimentary environment in lateral since similar sedimentary environment
has analogous sedimentary characteristics. Waveform inversion, utilizing the basic principle of sedimentology,
can analyze the high-frequency structural characteristics of the vertical lithological combination for the reservoir,
and makes full use of the lateral variation of seismic waveforms to reflect facies characteristics of the reservoir,
which can introduce the constraint of facies into the study. Then, the sedimentary rhythms of each layer can be
well recognized in the profile, and the sandstone or sedimentary facies boundary can be seen laterally.
The inversion result profile is compared and analyzed with the lithology of a single well, and the results
are shown in Fig.  7 that the inversion profile is in good agreement with the interpreted lithology of logging
interpretation. The spatial distribution of sandstone between wells is also well-matched with the inversion results.
Combination of electrofacies and seismic facies
Electrofacies are derived from conventional log data which rely on the radioactivity of subsurface rocks, while
seismic facies are generated from seismic data that depend on the elastic properties of the rocks. It is of great
significance to establish the relationship between seismic data and petrophysics and incorporate both to gain a
more comprehensive understanding in a workflow. The key processes for integrating and calibrating electrofacies
and seismic data are as follows:
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 6| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
• Vertical alignment Stretching reservoir intervals to match key horizons, ensuring that correlative markers are
aligned with corresponding seismic horizons and stratigraphic grid layers. Cross checking across multiple
wells is also executed to maintain reasonable interval velocities.
• Stratigraphic grid construction Existing mapped horizons are leveraged to define the grid boundaries and
internal geometries. Stratigraphic grids are constructed in the time domain that has a resolution comparable
to that of the seismic data.
• Resampling Resample electrofacies onto stratigraphic grid in order to calibrate the seismic facies in the model.
• Electrofacies—seismic facies calibration Establish probability matrix between seismic facies and electrofacies
to characterize the relationship:

P(Ei = ei ∩ Sj = sj )= P(Sj = sj | Ei = ei)
P(Ei = ei)
where electrofacies are represented by {e1,e 2 ...e n}, random variables Ei such that Ei = ei for i =1 ,...,n ,
which means Ei is a random variable that takes on the value of a particular electrofacies. Seismic facies are
denoted by {s1,s 2 ...s m} and are represented by the random variable Sj .
Sedimentary facies model
Despite electrofacies and seismic facies being two different types of geological data that are measured through
different methods, inconsistencies between the two data sets can gain a more comprehensive understanding
of subsurface geology. In addition, it is important to consider the limitations of each data set. For example,
electrofacies data may be more sensitive to changes in fluid content and porosity, while seismic facies data may
be more sensitive to changes in density and velocity. By recognizing the strengths and weaknesses of each data
set, it may be possible to develop a more accurate interpretation of subsurface geology. Above all, it is important
to use multiple pieces of evidence from other sources, such as core samples, well logs, and seismic signal analysis,
to support interpretations of subsurface geology and identify the inconsistencies between the two datasets can
lead to a more comprehensive understanding of subsurface geology.
Combined electrofacies from sandstone characteristics in vertical direction and seismic facies in lateral
direction with trend mapping from seismic attributes and facies boundaries from the inversion profile, a reliable
study workflow of sedimentary facies can be established. As shown in Fig. 8a, the interpreted electrofacies at well
locations is determined based on core data and well log, and the approximate distribution range of sedimentary
facies for the target layer can be roughly determined. However, in areas without well control, multiple possibilities
and uncertainties exist when interpreting facies. Therefore, trend control using seismic attributes is imperative.
The preferred seismic attribute can express lithological combinations and distribution characteristics of the
target layer. Figure 8b shows a selected seismic attribute slice, calibrated using interpreted log-based lithology.
The red areas in the attribute slice show good consistency with the thick sandstone intervals. As shown in Fig. 8c,
seismic facies features are distinctive in the profile, thus seismic facies boundaries can be distinguished in the
inversion profiles. Finally, sedimentary facies distribution can be further defined and shown in Fig.  8d with
the constrained inversion profile based on the identification result of sedimentary facies using only wells and
seismic attributes. The predicted sedimentary facies result reflects facies distribution from interpreted well log
and boundary from waveform inversion results, respectively.
Fig. 6. Different interlayer mudstone thicknesses with their seismic response characteristics.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 7| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Results
The sandstone of the Lower U could be subdivided into LU_T and LU_F . The LU_T mainly develops thin tidal
sandstone interbedded with mudstone, while the LU_F mainly consists of thick fluvial quartzose sandstone. The
LU_T layer develops tidal flat deposition, the average thickness of sandstone is 15.2 ft, and the average porosity is
Fig. 7. Waveform inversion results and interpreted wells.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 8| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
18.7%; the LU_F layer develops multi-phase tidal channels, the average sandstone thickness is 87.3 ft, the average
porosity is 20.3%, and the sandstone layer is laterally continuous. Four architectural types are characterized in
the vertical direction: (1) upper sand bar with lower sand bar, (2) upper sand bar with lower channel, (3) upper
channel with lower channel, and (4) upper channel with lower sand bar. In detail, the LU layer can be divided
into upper LU_T and lower LU_F and analyzed architectural characteristics of the inner composite sand-bodies.
Architecture analysis of LU_T layer composite sand-bodies
LU_T layer is a composite sand-bodies where tidal flat and tidal sand bar are vertically separated, and the tidal
sand bar is tangentially stacked lateral, as shown in Fig. 9. The vertical interface of the architecture characterizes
vertically separated interlayers with strong vertical blocking ability. The thin sandstone in the southern part of
the study area is well developed, which is better than that in the northern part of the study area.
Fig. 8. Sedimentary facies characterization and distribution. (a) Interpreted electrofacies at well locations.
(b) Waveform inversion result. (c) Facies boundaries from waveform inversion. (d) Sedimentary facies
distribution.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 9| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Architecture analysis of LU_F layer composite sand-bodies
LU_F layer is a composite sand-bodies where a tidal channel and tidal sand bar are superimposed on each
other as shown in Fig.  10. The vertical interface of the architecture is visible as separated interlayers and
partially stacked interlayers with strong and weak vertical blocking ability, respectively. The vertical sandstone
connectivity in the southern part of the study area is better than that in the northern part with good separated
interlayer development and shown as a bottom-water oil reservoir. The well log interpretation results show a
distinct oil—water contact, and the bottom water bodies indicated by the interpreted results of multiple wells
confirm the existence of a large—area water body at the bottom. Production data also verifies that the bottom
water body has sufficient energy, and after production starts, the water—cut rises rapidly while the pressure
remains stable.
Based on the statistical analysis of the interlayers in this area, the interlayers can be divided into three
categories. From Type I to Type III, the vertical blocking ability weakens. Type I: There is a stable mudstone or
silty mudstone separating two single sand bodies, and the thickness is generally greater than 0.5 m. It reveals that
there is a low-energy sedimentation period during the high-energy development period of the two single sand
bodies in the composite sand body. It is jointly controlled by the distribution ranges of the upper and lower sand
bodies, and has a strong blocking ability. Type II: The thickness of the interlayer between the two single sand
bodies is very small, generally less than 0.5 m, which shows that the upper channel sand body has eroded the
underlying mudstone interlayer. Vertically, it has a certain blocking ability, but the lateral distribution is unstable.
Type III: The two sand bodies are vertically superimposed. The interlayer has no thickness, indicating that the
upper channel has cut and eroded the lower sand body, presenting a sandstone interface, and the blocking ability
is weak.
Bottom water in the LU_F has a positive effect on maintaining formation energy, but it will lead to premature
water breakthrough and rapidly increasing water content when improperly controlled, thus reducing the
Fig. 10. LU_F layer composite sand-bodies.

Fig. 9. Architecture analysis of LU_T layer composite sand-bodies.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 10| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
development performance of bottom water reservoirs. Developed interlayer in formation often makes the vertical
connectivity of the reservoir worse and forms an isolated edge-water reservoir. Therefore, it is essential to finely
delineate the interlayer using the identification of interlayers in wells (Fig. 11a), the analysis of composite sand-
bodies architecture, and waveform inversion features (Fig. 11b). By combining the above features, some bottom-
water reservoirs are reinterpreted as a combination of the upper edge-water reservoir and the lower bottom-
water reservoir, which are verified by the new drilling wells and shown in Fig. 11c. Take the middle part of wells
in the area as an instance, the wells are interpreted as partially developed type II interlayers using only the wells.
Continuous type II interlayers, however, are well developed in the middle part which is interpreted using seismic
data. The production performance verifies the connectivity of the interlayers without well constraints and should
follow the seismic information.
Statistics on the thickness and length of the mud interlayer in the sand bar of this area show that 61%
interlayers are around 1 ft thick, 20% are between 1 and 2 ft and 19% are over 2 ft. The lengths of the interlayer
are between 2 and 8  km for 30%, and 70% of the interlayer lengths are greater than 8  km. Combined with
the interpretation result of seismic waveforms, the updated interpretation result shows that the thickness of
interlayer becomes thinner, the length of interlayer increases significantly and lateral variations are dramatic in
the area when the tidal strength increases.
Reservoir modeling
Three-dimensional geological modeling is performed based on fine reservoir description. Integrating geological,
seismic, logging, testing, and production data, fine description and analysis of the reservoir is performed to
show sedimentary features of oilfields. In detail, taking a single layer or sandstone as the basic unit, the reliability
and precision of modeling using comprehensive deterministic modeling with stochastic modeling under the
constraint of sedimentary facies can be improved and correctly reveal the geological features of the reservoir.
Guidelines are presented for each of the following main tasks and modeling scope: (1) Data collection and
preparation. To build this kind of model, numerous steps start with gathering the data: Different well log data
are collected for building the model, such as GR, density, and resistivity logs. The data exported from Geolog
Software includes water saturation, porosity, and permeability. Interpreted horizons with lines that include
points of equal value and separate points of higher and lower value, which display depth of a formation. (2) Well
correlation. Compares well log data (e.g., GR and resistivity) across multiple wells to map subsurface formations.
The resulting well correlation section reveals vertical (depth-related) and lateral (spatial) changes in formation
thickness, as well as variations in petrophysical properties such as porosity, permeability, and water saturation.
(3) Structural Modeling. The initial step in building the 3D model involves creating a 3D grid, which is a network
of horizontal and vertical lines used to represent the three-dimensional geological model. Pillar gridding is a
fundamental process for generating the grid that forms the basis of all modeling. The grid is composed of top,
mid, and base skeleton grids. For the study area, a three-dimensional grid system of 25 m per grid cell along the
X-axis and 25 m per grid cell along the Y-axis is used. The structural modeling involves placing the stratigraphic
horizons into the simple grid while considering the grid increment. Zones are built based on well tops from
Fig. 11. Identification of interlayers. (a) Identification of interlayers in wells, (b) Interlayers prediction using
waveform inversion features, (c) Identification of interlayers with the constraint of wells and waveform
inversion results. New wells are shown with red points.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 11| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
all wells and the available structural map for target formations from 3D seismic data. Each created zone is
subdivided into many layers of the same thickness according to the geological deposition of a specific zone.
It should be noted that the model of each layer can be accurately established by taking the existing geological
understanding data as the conditioned data, due to the limited distribution density of wells in the study area. The
length, width, and height of the collected sand bodies can be used to determine the variogram of the tidal sand
in the study area. At the same time, the scaling relationships are generally consistent with modern sedimentary
features. Under the guidance of modern sedimentary features, variogram analysis is carried out to determine the
variogram data of major range, minor range, and vertical range, which provides the basis for facies modeling.
Based on the sedimentary facies model, the three-dimensional geological model of porosity is realized by the
sequential Gaussian simulation method. Based on the reservoir physical property parameters relationship
between porosity and permeability interpreted from the logging, the three-dimensional geological model of
permeability is realized by the co-simulation method of porosity as the constraint and shown in Fig.  12. At
the same time, the three-dimensional geological model of water saturation is established under the constraint
of permeability and shown in Fig.  13. The inversion results, combining the seismic response characteristics
with strong trend mappings, can reflect the sandstone continuity without controlled wells, thus making up
for the shortcomings of the uncontrolled area without wells in the sedimentary facies and concluding semi-
deterministic method which considers seismic data provides greater reliability than stochastic method without
the constraint of seismic information.
Fig. 13. Three-dimensional geological model of water saturation.

Fig. 12. Three-dimensional geological model of permeability.

Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 12| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
The porosity of LU is mainly distributed at 16–26%, and the permeability is mainly distributed at 200 × 10–3–
000 × 10–3 μm2. According to cut-offs by logging discipline, combining the detail of the model, the function is
determined for Net-to-Gross calculation: NTG = if (Phie > 0.1,1, 0), that is mean when porosity is larger than 0.1,
the cells are defined as valid cells for reserve calculation. Oil pool distribution is mainly controlled by structure
and lithology, and the Oil–Water Contact (OWC) becomes higher from west to east with the structure rising.
Due to the strong edge-bottom water energy, the reservoir was severely water flooded at the bottom, and the
remaining oil was accumulating at the top in the north area. By comparing the logging information of the
new drilling well with the simulated logging information of the reservoir model, the reliability of porosity and
permeability models are mainly verified with accuracy reaching 91%.
The outcomes of the study reveal that, within the constraint defined by seismic data-delineated sand
boundaries, the predicted well logs in the model exhibit a high degree of consistency with core analysis, achieving
a relative error of 7.6% between the verification wells and their respective well log. This represents a significant
improvement over the initially interpreted outcomes, suggesting that, in tidal-dominated estuarine reservoirs,
the adoption of a seismic data-constrained reservoir modeling approach can effectively enhance the accuracy of
the model in areas sparsely populated with wells. Consequently, it offers invaluable guidance for the exploration
and development strategies of hydrocarbon-bearing reservoirs situated within tidal-controlled estuaries.
Discussion
A study on the fine characterization of the tidal-dominated estuary reservoirs was carried out by incorporating
seismic data, which described the distribution and properties of subsurface reservoirs. A stable workflow has
been implemented to complement the lateral characterization of tidal-dominated estuary sandstones in the
study area. Integrating seismic data enhances the certainty of the characterization, although it also introduces
inconsistencies due to the fundamentally different properties measured by electrofacies and seismic data, which
require expert geological interpretation for effective integration.
The development of interlayers within the sand bar—formed during the slack water period of the tidal cycle,
when sediments were deposited following strong tidal disturbances—is indicative of a distinct sedimentary
event. From the point of view of sedimentary dynamics, the degree of sediment deposition to the sea is weak
when the tidal strength is small, and the sediment deposition to the sea at this time mainly relies on the impact of
fluvial sources. This result aligns with previous findings by Tang et al.36, who used experiments to simulate tidal
channel emergence in the offshore section of the sand bar, and indicates the development of the sand bar has
been influenced by the combined action of fluvial and tidal forces during the formation of the tide-dominated
estuary. Therefore, the study area conforms to the sedimentation law of modern estuaries.
For sedimentary characterization of tide-dominated estuarine systems, Dalrymple et al. 37 established the
classic sedimentary pattern of the tidal controlled estuary through the investigation of the modern Cobequid
estuarine bay. However, new drilled wells have demonstrated inherent limitations in reservoir prediction
accuracies when relying solely on well-based electrofacies interpretation 38, particularly regarding spatial
heterogeneity characterization. The seismic facies analysis conducted in this study enhances the reliability
of later-stage predictions that cannot be resolved by well data alone. The integration of seismic facies with
electrofacies establishes a robust multi-scale characterization framework: seismic attributes provide meso-scale
architectural constraints from rock elastic properties, electrofacies offer centimeter-scale vertical resolution
form rock radioactive properties. Although no one—to—one correspondence exists between seismic facies and
electrofacies since seismic data reflects a combination of geophysical factors, only some of which are directly
related to lithofacies, each seismic facies is associated with a unique distribution of electrofacies.
Meanwhile, the study on the sand architecture of the LU layer can provide a strong implication for the
distribution of the sandstone and architecture of the tidal-dominated estuary. In tidal-controlled estuary
environment, we can find that the geometry of tidal sand bars varies widely, where length-to-width ratios are
roughly distributed between 3–15 times based on seismic facies. These values can be incorporated into variogram
modeling to enhance spatial predictions and reflect their geological significance. Although their geometric
features have strong statistical laws, a wide range of distributions can be noted. Modeling on this basis will
inevitably bring a certain degree of uncertainty. The solution to this problem is to further subdivide the geometric
features of sand bodies by incorporating more information. In this way, the sedimentary understanding can then
be used to guide geological modeling, the uncertainty of the modeling results can be reduced and the accuracy
of the simulation results can be improved.
Nowadays, the water cut of the study area reaches 93%, some of the main producing oilfields even reach
95%, and the remaining oil distribution is sparse and scattered. The area without the constraint of wells shows
high risk and uncertainty for new proposal wells. Therefore, it is of great significance to integrate newly available
data to investigate the remaining oil, which will help us update reservoir understanding and build a reliable
reservoir model to predict the distribution of residual oil. Comprehensive reservoir characterization should be
quantitatively automated for potential analysis of new well proposal in time. It should be noted that interpretation
using a resistivity tool have to be compensated for the effects from the invasion of mud filtrate and borehole
conditions, since the interpreted results are only reliable when the influence of borehole and surrounding
formations are minimized.
An integrated workflow that combines electrofacies, seismic facies, and sedimentological analysis provides
an effective approach to extending highly localized information 34,39,40. However, these studies focus on fluvial
and deltaic deposits, which contrasts with estuarine systems characterized by dual hydrodynamic forces of
tidal and wave-driven mixing. This divergence expands the understanding of depositional controls beyond
common fluvial and deltaic systems. Also, machine Learning method used in this paper is robust which offers
computational efficiency and requires minimal training data, making it advantageous for data-scarce regions.
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 13| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Conclusion
In this paper, a study on the fine characterization of tidal-dominated estuary reservoirs is carried out
and a geological model is established based on electrofacies and seismic facies under well constraints. By
comprehensively analyzing core data, seismic, and well logs, we can find that the LU layer of Napo Formation
in Oriente Basin develops tidal estuary sedimentation, which can be further divided into four electrofacies:
tidal channel, tidal sand bar, sand flat, and mixed flat. Based on the combination of well logs and seismic data,
a reliable fine delineation of a tidal-dominated estuary reservoir is proposed to characterize the distribution of
sedimentary facies in the study area. This delineation is constrained by the electrofacies at the location of wells,
trend maps of seismic attributes, and facies boundaries of seismic inversion profiles. After that, the analysis
of interlayer development in different wells (e.g., LU_T with vertically separated interlayers versus LU_F with
stacked sandstone) reveals the significant vertical and lateral heterogeneity of reservoirs. This heterogeneity must
be taken into account when modeling reservoirs and predicting oil distributions, as it can significantly impact
fluid flow and production strategies. Finally, the use of sedimentary understanding to guide geological modeling
reduces modeling uncertainty and improves simulation accuracy. By integrating core data, well logging, and
seismic facies analysis, researchers can establish a reliable fine delineation of tidal-dominated estuary reservoirs.
This approach enables the quantitative and reliable characterization of subsurface structures and sedimentary
characteristics41.
Data availability
The datasets used and analysed during the current study available from the corresponding author on reasonable
request.
Received: 10 November 2024; Accepted: 21 May 2025
References
 1. Wighman, D. M. & Pemberton, S. G. The Lower Cretaceous (Aptian) Mcmurray Formation: An Overview of Carbon in the Fort
McMurray Area, Northeastern Alberta. CSPG Specoal Publications 18, 312–344 (1997).
 2. Lee, G. H. et al. Aspects of the petroleum geology of the Bermejo Field, Northwestern Oriente Basin, Ecuador. J. Pet. Geol. 27(4),
335–356. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1747-5457.2004.tb00062.x (2004).
 3. Rodríguez, W ., Buatois, L. A., Mángano, M. G. & Solórzano, E. Sedimentology, ichnology, and sequence stratigraphy of the
miocene oficina formation, junín and Boyacá Areas, Orinoco Oil Belt, Eastern Venezuela Basin. Mar. Pet. Geol. 92, 213–233.  h t t p
s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 1 6 / j . m a r p e t g e o . 2 0 1 8 . 0 1 . 0 3 7     (2018).
 4. Schwarz, E., Veiga, G. D., Spalletti, L. A. & Massaferro, J. L. The transgressive infill of an inherited-valley system: The Springhill
Formation (Lower Cretaceous) in Southern Austral Basin, Argentina. Mar. Pet. Geol. 28(6), 1218–1241.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 1 6 / j .
m a r p e t g e o . 2 0 1 0 . 1 1 . 0 0 3     (2011).
 5. Virolle, M. et al. Influence of sedimentation and detrital clay grain coats on chloritized sandstone reservoir qualities: Insights from
comparisons between ancient tidal heterolithic sandstones and a modern estuarine system. Mar. Pet. Geol. 107, 163–184.  h t t p s : / / d
o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 1 6 / j . m a r p e t g e o . 2 0 1 9 . 0 5 . 0 1 0     (2019).
 6. Virolle, M. et al. Facies associations, detrital clay grain coats and mineralogical characterization of the Gironde estuary tidal Bars:
A modern analogue for deeply buried estuarine sandstone reservoirs. Mar. Pet. Geol. 114, 104225.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 1 6 / j . m a r p
e t g e o . 2 0 2 0 . 1 0 4 2 2 5     (2020).
 7. Zhang, J. L. & Zhang, Z. J. Sedimentary Facies of the Silurian Tide-Dominated Paleo-Estuary of the Tazhong Area in the Tarim
Basin. Pet. Sci. 5(2), 95–104. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12182-008-0016-2 (2008).
 8. Selim, S. S. & Abdel Baset, A. A. Sedimentological Analysis and Reservoir Characterization of an Estuarine Bar: An Example from
the El-Basant Gas Field, Nile Delta, Egypt. J. Nat. Gas Sci. Eng. 84, 103548. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jngse.2020.103548 (2020).
 9. Zhang, C. Q. et al. Application and uncertainty analysis of modern estuary research in tide control reservoir modeling-take m
oilfield as an example. International Field Exploration and Development Conference (Springer Nature, 2021) 1005–1017  h t t p s : / / d o i
. o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 0 7 / 9 7 8 - 9 8 1 - 1 9 - 2 1 4 9 - 0 _ 9 0     .
 10. Cheng, J. W . et al. A case study on advanced reservoir characterization of the sandstone reservoirs in Ecuador. In 85th EAGE
Annual Conference and Exhibition (including the Workshop Programme)  (Vol. 2024, No. 1, pp. 1–5) (European Association of
Geoscientists and Engineers, 2024).
 11. Cheng, J., Zhang, F . & Li, X. Seismic amplitude inversion for orthorhombic media based on a modified reflection coefficient
approximation. Surv. Geophys. 43(5), 1395–1433.  h t t p s :  / / d o i .  o r g / 1 0  . 1 1 9 0 /  g e o 2 0  1 3 - 0 3 6  6 . 1 . G P  Y S A 7 0 0  1 6 - 8 0 3 3 (2022).
 12. Cheng, J. W ., Zhang, F . & Li, X. Y . Nonlinear amplitude inversion using a hybrid quantum genetic algorithm and the exact zoeppritz
equation. Pet. Sci. 19(3), 1048–1064. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petsci.2021.12.014 (2022).
 13. Lasheen, I., Noureldin, A. M. & Metwally, A. Reservoir characterization of the Abu Roash D Member through petrography and
seismic interpretations in Southern Abu Gharadig Basin, Northern Western Desert, Egypt. Sci. Rep. 14(1), 8966.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1
0 . 1 0 3 8 / s 4 1 5 9 8 - 0 2 4 - 5 8 8 4 6 - 6     (2024).
 14. Ma, Z. et al. Sequential Bayesian seismic inversion for fracture parameters and fluid indicator in tilted transversely isotropic media.
Geophysics 88(3), R355–R371. https://doi.org/10.1190/geo2022-0439.1 (2023).
 15. Oluwadare, O. A., Folorunso, A. F ., Ashiru, O. R. & Otoabasi-Akpan, S. I. High resolution 3-D seismic and sequence stratigraphy
for reservoir prediction in ‘Stephi’field, offshore Niger Delta, Nigeria. Sci. Rep. 14(1), 22390.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 3 8 / s 4 1 5 9 8 - 0 2 4 - 7
3 2 8 5 - z     (2024).
 16. Vallejo, C. et al. Geology of the campanian M1 sandstone oil reservoir of Eastern Ecuador: A delta system sourced from the
Amazon Craton. Mar. Pet. Geol. 86, 1207–1223. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpetgeo.2017.07.022 (2017).
 17. Zhao, C. et al. Characterization of deep-water submarine fan reservoir architecture: AB120 reservoir in the campos basin. Front.
Earth Sci. 10, 892902. https://doi.org/10.3389/feart.2022.892902 (2022).
 18. Arpat, G. B. & Caers, J. Conditional simulation with patterns. Math. Geol. 39(2), 177–203.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 0 7 / s 1 1 0 0 4 - 0 0 6 - 9 0
7 5 - 3     (2007).
 19. Guardiano, F . B. & Srivastava, R. M. Multivariate geostatistics: Beyond bivariate moments. Quantitative Geology and Geostatistics
133–144 (Springer, 1993).
 20. Kant, R., Maurya, S. P ., Singh, K. H., Nisar, K. S. & Tiwari, A. K. Qualitative and quantitative reservoir characterization using
seismic inversion based on particle swarm optimization and genetic algorithm: a comparative case study. Sci. Rep. 14(1), 22581.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-72278-2 (2024).
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 14| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
 21. Liu, X. et al. Simulation of complex geological architectures based on multi-stage generative adversarial networks integrating with
attention mechanism and spectral normalization. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. https://doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2023.3294493
(2023).
 22. Liu, X. et al. Stochastic simulation of facies using deep convolutional generative adversarial network and image quilting. Mar. Pet.
Geol. 146, 105932. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpetgeo.2022.105932 (2022).
 23. Shi, Y . et al. FMG_INV , a fast multi-Gaussian inversion method integrating well-log and seismic data. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote
Sens. https://doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2024.3351207 (2024).
 24. Strebelle, S. Conditional simulation of complex geological structures using multiple-point statistics. Math. Geol. 34(1), 1–21
(2002).
 25. Lindsay, R.O. & Bocanegra, D. Sand thickness prediction from band-limited seismic attributes using neural networks: Oriente
Basin, Ecuador. In SEG International Exposition and Annual Meeting SEG-2002 (SEG, 2002).
 26. Shanmugam, G., Poffenberger, M. & Toro Alava, J. Tide-dominated estuarine facies in the Hollin and Napo (“ T” and" U")
formations (Cretaceous), Sacha field, Oriente basin, Ecuador. AAPG Bull. 84(5), 652–682 (2000).
 27. Y ang, X. F . et al. Reservoir characteristics and hydrocarbon accumulation of the glauconitic sandstone in the Tarapoa Block,
Oriente Basin, Ecuador. J. Petrol. Sci. Eng. 173, 558–568. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petrol.2018.10.059 (2019).
 28. Baby, P ., Rivadeneira, M., Barragán, R. & Christophoul, F . Thick-skinned tectonics in the Oriente foreland basin of Ecuador. Geol.
Soc. Lond. Spec. Publ. 377(1), 59–76. https://doi.org/10.1144/SP377.1 (2013).
 29. Zhang, C. et al. Analysis of fine-grained sand and shale sedimentary characteristics in estuary based on sediment dynamics. Front.
Earth Sci. 10, 963290. https://doi.org/10.3389/feart.2022.963290 (2023).
 30. Vallejo, C., Hochuli, P . A., Winkler, W . & Von Salis, K. Palynological and sequence stratigraphic analysis of the Napo Group in the
Pungarayacu 30 well, Sub-Andean Zone, Ecudaor. Cretaceous Res. 23(6), 845–859. https://doi.org/10.1006/cres.2002.1028 (2002).
 31. Estupiñan, J., Marfil, R., Scherer, M. & Permanyer, A. Reservoir sandstones of the Cretaceous Napo Formation U and T members
in the Oriente Basin, Ecuador: links between diagenesis and sequence stratigraphy. J. Pet. Geol. 33(3), 221–245.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0
. 1 1 1 1 / j . 1 7 4 7 - 5 4 5 7 . 2 0 1 0 . 0 0 4 7 5 . x     (2010).
 32. Dashwood, M. F . & Abbotts, I. L. Aspects of the petroleum geology of the Oriente basin, Ecuador. In Classic Petroleum Provinces
Vol. 50 (eds Tankard, A. J. et al.) 89–117 (Special Publications, 1990).
 33. Brookfield, M. E., Hemmings, D. P . & Van Straaten, P . Paleoenvironments and origin of the sedimentary phosphorites of the Napo
Formation (Late Cretaceous, Oriente Basin, Ecuador). J. South Am. Earth Sci. 28(2), 180–192.  h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 1 6 / j . j s a m e s . 2 0
0 9 . 0 2 . 0 0 4     (2009).
 34. Lertlamnaphakul, P ., Thanatit, S., & Seusutthiya, K. Integrated well log electrofacies and seismic facies modeling for stratigraphic
trap identification in carbonate reservoirs, North Oman. In IPTC 2012: International Petroleum Technology Conference cp-280
(European Association of Geoscientists & Engineers, 2012).  h t t p s :  / / d o i .  o r g / 1 0  . 3 9 9 7 /  2 2 1 4 -  4 6 0 9 - p  d b . 2 8 0  . i p t c 1  4 8 0 6 _ n o P W
 35. Abu-Mostafa, Y . S., Magdon-Ismail, M. & Lin, H. T. Learning from Data (AML Book, 2012).
 36. Tang, J. F . et al. Three-dimensional modeling of estuary reservoir based on coupling sedimentary dynamics simulation and
multipoint geostatistics method. Earth Sci. 49(1), 174–188. https://doi.org/10.3799/dqkx.2022.199 (2024).
 37. Dalrymple, R., Zaitlin, B. & Boyd, R. Estuarine faceis models: Conceptual basis and stratigraphic implications. J. Sediment. Res. 62,
1130–1146.  h t t p s :   /  / d o  i . o r  g /  1 0 . 1 3  0  6 / d 4 2  6 7  a 6 9 -  2  b 2 6 -   1 1 d 7 -  8 6 4 8 0 0 0 1 0 2 c 1 8 6 5 d (1992).
 38. Zhang, J. et al. Astronomical forcing of meter-scale organic-rich mudstone–limestone cyclicity in the Eocene Dongying sag, China:
Implications for shale reservoir exploration. AAPG Bull. 106(8), 1557–1579. https://doi.org/10.1306/02072220103 (2022).
 39. Mehdipour, V ., Rabbani, A. R. & Kadkhodaie, A. The best scenario for geostatistical modeling of porosity in the Sarvak reservoir
in an Iranian Oil Field, using electrofacies, seismic facies, and seismic attributes. SPE Reservoir Eval. Eng. 26(04), 1344–1363.  h t t p
s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 2 1 1 8 / 2 1 7 4 2 8 - P A     (2023).
 40. Vukadin, D., Puntarec, T. B., Đureković, Ž. M., Jakupec, E. & Čikeš, K. Integrated Petrophysical and Seismic Analysis in the Facies-
Case Study. In 81st EAGE Conference and Exhibition 2019 (Vol. 2019, No. 1, pp. 1–5). (European Association of Geoscientists &
Engineers, 2019). https://doi.org/10.3997/2214-4609.201901282
 41. Ma, Z. et al. Nitrogen–Sulfur–Oxygen compounds in the study of oil migration in Block TW , eastern flank of the Oriente Basin,
Ecuador. Mar. Pet. Geol. 140, 105640. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpetgeo.2022.105640 (2022).
 42. Zhou, Y ., Ma, Z., Tian, Z., Lin, J., Y ang, X. & Dandan, W . Seismic prediction for clastic thin reservoir along slope zone of orient
basin in south America. In Proceedings of the International Field Exploration and Development Conference 2019  3406–3419
(Springer Singapore, 2020).
Acknowledgements
This study is sponsored by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (42304134). The authors would
like to thank Prof. Wang Hongjun for his valuable comments and to CNPC Andes (Ecuador) Company Limited
for permission and data.
Author contributions
All authors contributed to the study’s conception and design. Material preparation, data collection, and analysis
were performed by Jiwei Cheng. The first draft of the manuscript was written by Jiwei Cheng and all authors
commented on previous versions of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to C.J.
Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional affiliations.
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 15| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Open Access  This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which
permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give
appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and
indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s
Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included
in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or
exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy
of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
© The Author(s) 2025
Scientific Reports |        (2025) 15:19522 16| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-03591-7
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
